So the problem is that we have a graph and we want to get from no way to know B.
So Daddy Samarth Agis on our way is the smallest and this is pretty common problem.
For example Google maps are computing shortest path all the time.
So how do they do it.
Well I don't know what algorithm they're using Google for this task but mostly is use Dykstra algorithm.
So let's see how it works.
I got here and an oriented graph.
So think of it as a road network and I want to get from May to G so that the rotes value is smallest.
So if you think about it you can just try out all the options but that would be really inefficient.
Imagine that you have to you road network of all United States and if you want to try all the possible
paths you will wait for the result forever.
So what dexterous algorithm does is it takes also a kind of brute force approach but it does that more
smartly because it goes through the first throats first.
So let me show you how it actually works.
We are starting in May and we also have a priority Crea of nodes where we keep track of how much time
it takes to get to particular node and at the beginning all nodes have infinity because we haven't got
to any of those nodes yet.
And what Dextre does.
Well it takes a look at where we can get from current node and then change the value of bat to that
particular node and put these notes back to priority.
And I forgot to mention this and the prior degree.
All the notes are sorted based on how much time it takes to get there.
So let me show you how it works on an example.
I think you will understand it better Dahr.
Here is my graph and here is my prior degree and I'm going to take the first note from Priority County
and check where I can go.
So in this case I take a and see that I can go to B and it takes me 5.
So I will change value of b in prior order.
And also said the note from which I got here and that is a I can also go to see.
And it takes me 2.
So I will change the value of c from infinity to 2 and I will also move.
See above B in priority kwi because this priority quie is sorted.
This is actually an important step because then we are always taking first note from Priority Quy and
that is why we are looking at faster path first bad.
Anyway I also said the node from which I got to see today and look at last note and that is the.
So the value of 7 and I got here from J.
So now I have gone through every patch from J.
So I can delete a from Priority query and grab the first note and priority Quy and do this all over
again.
So from C I can go back to.
But since that is where I got to see it is useless to go in there again.
Right.
So I will skip a from C. I can also get to D.
And does that have value of 2.
So I take a look at how much time it takes to get to the end now.
And if the value is bigger than the sum of bath from start to Quraan note and the edge from corrent
know to d i change the value.
So in this case I had up to because it takes me two to get from a to c and then I add two because it
takes me two to get from C to D and that gives me four and grinned shortest path to D is 7.
So I will change the value to 4 and I will also change the node from which I got here to see and I also
need to get the OP in priority kwi because it has a smaller value then B.
Right.
So now I look at outer edges from see so I can get to me.
And it takes me two plus seven.
So I change the value of to 9 and I got here from C and these are all the edges that leads from CS So
C is done and I can delete it from Priority Queeg.
Now I grab the first priority query and see where I can get from the.
And I can go only to F and that takes me 4.
So I will add up the value of the with 4 and set it as a new value of f because it is smaller than infinity.
And I also said the node from which I got here to D.
I delete the first priority Quy and I grab B from Priority 3 and see where I can get from B.
I can get from B to C and it takes me only two so I add up the value of B with 2 and get 7.
And I can see that we have that here of 9 so I change it to 7.
And I also changed the note from which I got here to be.
Now I delete no B from Priority Quy and grab.
Note E and I can get from me to F and it takes me free.
So I check whether d add up that you so value of E plus free is smaller than the current value.
And it is not.
So I leave it and move on to next Adj.
And that takes me from B to G and it takes me also free.
So the path to G takes me seven plus free and that is then.
So I change the value of G to 10.
And I also said the node from which I got here to be bad.
Even though I reached the finish I still need to check all the notes above g in priority.
So I delete e from Priority Quy and move on to af.
Why do I have to do this.
Well imagine that there is that from an to G.
And it takes only one.
Then the shortest path would be different.
Right.
So I need to check all the notes in front of G and try our decree.
So from math I can get to edge in four.
So I changed the value of h to 12 and I said the note from which I got here to.
And I can also get to G.
And it takes me free so I change the value of G to 11 and set the node 2 and remove that from priority.
And as you can see now G is first priority.
So that means I found the shortest path.
So now I can reconstruct this path by looking at the notes that I wisit so I get to G from E I get to
e from B and I get to be from May and that is the shortest path.
I hope this makes sense and I think it should because it is still pretty much brute force algorithm.
It doesn't go through the barfs in proper direction so that's Razo algorithm.
It's kind of Decore but since it is still pretty inefficient.
Most of the used algorithms have some improvements like they search routes in some direction.
But anyway that is pretty much it for this lecture.
If you have any questions feel free to contact me.
I will be here to help and I will see you next time.